Welcome to the Data Science Hangout, everybody. Thank you so much for being here with me.
And I don't have Rachel today. She is enjoying a nice vacation. So it's just me. And I'm also
really nervous because I've never done this by myself before. So be extra nice to me.
And I hope that you have a wonderful time. This is a space that we have
really kind of cultivated together. And it's an open space to hear what's going on across
data science. We have people calling in from all over the world. We chat about data science
leadership. We connect with others who are facing similar problems. And it's every day on Thursday,
same time, same place, most Thursdays, every once in a while. We will miss one for a holiday or
for conference. We are all really dedicated to making this a friendly and warm and welcoming
space. And we love hearing from you no matter your years of experience, your title, your industry,
what language you work in. Everybody is welcome. If you're watching this recording in the future,
and you want to hang out with us live, there's going to be details below for you to add it to
your calendar. So we really enjoy connecting with everybody in the chat. And we want to encourage
you to just briefly like say hello, drop a link to your LinkedIn or to your personal website.
I have found over the years hanging out in the Hangout that oftentimes I will say hi to somebody
and then I won't get their LinkedIn or their personal website or anything. And their name
will be like Amy Smith and I'll never find them again. So let people know who you are and where
they can find you. You can also share in the chat any roles that you might be hiring for. Please,
please do that. And if you're looking for a role, let everybody know what you're looking
for and what you would like to do and see if we can make some connections that way.
There are three ways to jump in and ask questions today or just share your own experience if you
want to chime in with something. So you can raise your hand on Zoom and I will call you to just
unmute and ask your question. You can put your question in the Zoom chat. Isabella and Curtis
are behind the scenes making sure that all of those questions get to me somehow. Thank you so
much Isabella and Curtis and Randy's here. And then you can also put an asterisk next to your
question if you might be somewhere noisy or your mic doesn't work and you would like us to ask that
question for you. We would be happy to do that. We also have an anonymous way to ask questions
which is Slido. So Isabella has put a link in the chat. It says you can ask anonymous questions here
we will keep track of that throughout and try to grab any anonymous questions that we see.
All right we are joined today by our co-host Alex Gold. I'm so excited to talk with him.
He leads solutions engineering and support teams at Posit. So welcome Alex and I would love to get
started by just having you introduce yourself. Tell us what you do and a little bit about yourself
outside of work. Yeah absolutely. It's great to be here. I was messaging Libby ahead of time
that we would count this as a success as long as neither of us vomit on the camera. So like
that's the bar we're setting. We're gonna nail it. It's gonna be fine. Yeah we're gonna do great.
We're gonna do great. A little bit about me. So thanks Jeff that's helpful.
So yeah I lead the solutions engineering and support teams here at Posit. My background is in
math and econ. I am an econ PhD dropout. Sort of wound my way into data science and was a data
science manager for a while and then came to Posit about five and a half years ago
as a solutions engineer, was an individual contributor and then sort of moved back
into management here at Posit when an opportunity presented itself. Outside of work I live
in Silver Spring, Maryland right outside DC with my wife and our puppy and our four-month-old
which has been an adventure for the last little while. And other than the data stuff I do
I like doing landscaping and house projects and have been a martial artist for 24 years. So that's
my big out-of-work hobby. Wow what kind of martial arts do you do? I've done a bunch of different
things. The main thing I've done is tang sudo which is a Korean punching and kicking thing
kind of like taekwondo if you know anything about it. Also Japanese small circle jiu-jitsu and I've
spent a few years each studying tai chi and bando which is a Burmese martial art but mostly tang sudo.
That's amazing. Well okay don't cross Alex. He'll come for you. Okay well I would love to
hear a little bit more about your educational background. So you said you were in math and
economics. What led you the data science route and what made you decide to drop out of the PhD program?
Yeah so yeah my background it was the university I went to. I went to Wesleyan
University in Connecticut. We didn't have minors or something. I don't remember exactly the deal
but it was like this joint major of math slash econ. It was like one major that was both of them
so that's what I did in undergrad and then I spent a while working in like the DC think tank world
doing policy analysis and that kind of thing and I spent a bunch of years doing that and
you know did a lot of different kinds of policy analysis. Some really quantitative some much more
qualitative and realized that like the thing I had always loved about economics was sort of that
it's this funny mashup of like math and people or like you know especially if you're doing for any
of you who have econ backgrounds right like I was doing exclusively microeconomics mostly like what
you would broadly classify as like labor economics and so it was all about like people and numbers
and it turns out that like if you add some computer stuff in there you basically have
data science and at the time data science didn't really exist as a field but you know when I was a
few years out of school it started becoming sort of more of a more of a real thing. So the the PhD
part was sort of in the middle of my think tank time when I was like oh if you want to like move
up at a think tank in DC you kind of got to go get a PhD so I did that. I started it. Decided it
really wasn't the right career path for me and was very lucky to have a lot of support from family
and friends which was really meaningful and dropped out after a year with my master's
which was actually a great deal because I got a master's degree for free because my program was
funded. So if any of you have gone to grad school, a piece of advice I got from a professor when I
was still in undergrad they were like when you go to grad school do a PhD program and only go
if it's funded and then if you don't want to finish you get your master's for free in a year
and it turned out that was great advice because that's that's how it worked. To be fair I'm not
sure I learned a lot in that master's degree because it's all like first year econ PhD stuff
which like Curtis right like you have a PhD in econ you know that first year. It is not real
material it's just it's just prep for for the rest. So like whatever.
But still nothing to sniff out. Free master's degrees. I am still paying mine off.
Yeah it opens doors even if the the stuff you learned is it's a credential and that is valuable
in certain ways. So yeah then then after yeah I think yeah I think I hit it whatever.
No I think you did. I'm curious about so you're you went from a sort of research think tanky role
into data science. Yes. And you felt like that was kind of a natural progression.
What is DevOps though? Because you're a solutions engineer what does a solutions engineer do?
And you just wrote a book about DevOps so can you talk about what solutions engineering
is or looks like for you every day? What kind of problems you solve?
Yeah so you know I think an experience that I had and I think many data scientists have
I'm sure many people in this room have had this experience is like as you get more serious about
doing data science sort of like all roads lead down the stack right you start you're like yeah
I'm gonna like build a sweet machine learning model or whatever and then you're like oh but
the data sucks so I got to clean the data and then you're like oh but like the database sucks
so I can't even clean the data because the database is bad and you're like oh actually
the server that's bad. So I my first sort of data science job I ended up managing RStudio server on
a Linux server for that organization and it just became really clear that like that was I mean for
me I really enjoy that a lot of people do that work and they're like oh this is this is no fun
I do not like this right and those people go back to doing you know or try and go back to doing data
science I often think that's a losing battle but for me I found I really enjoyed that stuff sort
of further down the stack I found I was really interested in like how to manage servers and
networking and data and all this kind of stuff and that was how I ended up here at Posit as a
solutions engineer that's that's what a lot of the work is of doing solutions engineering is this
sort of connection between right how would you use the Posit products as a data scientist and
how do you set them up so that they work well for for the people who want to use them and so
that was a really great fit for me because I obviously cared a lot about what data scientists
do day to day but I really enjoyed like working on a Linux terminal and figuring out how to make it
not suck for them so you know that's that's sort of the answer of like how I got to the point of
being a solutions engineer and uh why I wrote my book DevOps for Data Science it's available for
free online do4ds.com um but sort of there's this like broader question of like what is DevOps and
like to me I think like DevOps is this funny thing where it's like it's a general purpose thing about
making computer code not suck when you put it into production because right you have like in
like the 90s you have the agile revolution where everybody's like oh we're not gonna like spend
years defining requirements then it gets super out of date and then we write a bunch of code and it
isn't good we're gonna do the agile stuff where we like deliver small batches frequently right I
think probably a lot of people in here have heard of what agile is and probably aspire to it um
I think agile is always aspirational but like it's great um but then there's this question of
like okay we're writing the code in this agile way but then it has to like go live right the code has
to go from being on my computer I wrote it I wrote a little agile thing I like showed it to the
customer the customer's like this is great and then you have to like put it into production
and this is where the DevOps part comes from and so DevOps is it's a really mushy term because it's
a set of like it's it's not there are tools involved but it's not just tooling it's also
processes and people and like a philosophy that basically you try and put things into production
in a way that works well with agile so DevOps is a super mushy term and there are also like
a gajillion companies out there that sell DevOps software and so like shockingly they're like
DevOps is the thing we do wow crazy um and so like I think there's a lot of tension
on the word DevOps it's it's very overloaded um but it is also a real thing right it really is
this idea that you can deliver not just create but deliver software in small increments right
and I think there's a lot that as data scientists we can learn from those ideas um and and one of
the the reason that I really wanted to write this book was that like you can't just be like oh
DevOps and then just like translate it right like you can't just be like oh now just do that for
data science because data science is a fundamentally different practice than software engineering we're
not software engineers right we're doing a different thing um and so uh you know having
done the work I'd done with just dozens and hundreds of companies seeing how they were
implementing data science um I wanted to spend some time uh you know digesting those thoughts
and then spitting out a book so that's that's what I did that's awesome thank you I think we'll ask
you I want to ask you at least one more question about writing a book but I realized Mike's Mike
Smith and I like jinxed at the same time and had the same question for you so I would love Mike to
ask his follow-up question thanks Libby I'm not going to hold it against you for stealing my
question because it was the obvious one um so uh Alex I I sometimes get people coming to me and
saying hey Mike how can I get access to like 128 cores and 64 gigabytes of RAM and I'm like uh well
I could give you the answer to that or I could ask you why why do you need that what's the problem
that you're trying to solve here and it seems to me that often like the weirdest questions come up
and you can give people the quick answer or you can dive into what is it you're really wanting
from this and and so can you give us tips if you've got experience on how to pivot that question
and go from do you want the quick answer or do you want to actually find the right solution to the
right problem yeah no just do that like yeah Mike that's exactly um I answered my own question
no I think so I I I think that's exactly right right and this is where sort of the the principles
of DevOps are honestly and it's funny like in writing the book the technical parts were like
fine right like but I sort of felt like I had to write those books to get those parts to get
permission to write the parts that were really about like relationships between teams and
organizations which I think is really the crux of of what's important here is developing a way
to work with other people who have other priorities and have other ways of viewing the mission of the
organization right and and and might care about different right they might have a different
ranking of what they what they care about and so I think that's exactly right and it's funny
actually it's something I think about a lot in my day job as a solutions engineer as well because so
often we're talking to people who are you know they'll they'll come to us and they'll be like
we really need the rnv package to do this and I'm like why do you need the rnv package to do that
and you you follow that chain like a few a few steps uphill and all of a sudden you're going like
whoa you you need a totally different tool right that that actually would be would be a better
solution so Mike I like all I can say is that like I think it's exactly like always the right thing
to do is to try and take that step back and go hey why are we trying to do that and you know
in your organization maybe you have authority to like just give somebody
that hardware to show them where to get that hardware but one of the ways the relationship
between data scientists and other parts of the organization can go awry is when data scientists
are really hungry for more more more more more without necessarily having a lot to show for it
and so I think like your question of why do you really need this you know you may have the
question but even more so the like person over on the it team who's responsible for controlling
cloud spend who is going to see this 128 core machine that's been up for nine months and has
cost several thousand dollars and they're like what is going on here and maybe that's worthwhile
for whatever you're doing but before you do that you should probably make sure that you've convinced
yourself at least that you can you know yourself either you or or you know whoever that that
actually is a worthwhile even if you have permission making sure that it's a worthwhile
you know endeavor is is I think a great use of time so I I yeah I think I've said a lot of words
and added nothing to what you said so follow up to the follow-up then is sometimes the can I just
get access as a quick answer right yeah sure I'll give you access whereas the alternative is a long
process and and you know someone may go well I don't have time to explain this Mike and and you
know if you don't give them the quick answer they'll go to someone else who can give them the
quick answer yeah and I think you know this is a completely unsatisfying answer but to me so much
of this is about relationships right like we are humans working with humans and it's so tempting
especially as technical people to want to treat the other humans as like the other side of an API
where we can just like query the API and get what we need and and I think sometimes actually if you
can get your organization to the place where you have either a literal technical API or a like
team to team level kind of understanding that's actually really cool um but a lot of times
relationships are what allow you to build that out and and get you to the point where like that
actually is is possible right I think one of the really important concepts for a data scientist
is getting the permission and the ability to have a sandbox where you can play with real data right
and so like getting that sandbox is often a years-long endeavor particularly in a big big
organization right like it's years of approvals and building it out and hardware and that kind
of stuff but then once you have the sandbox right then it's like wow this is this is magic and so
it is not easy and often requires a lot of just relationship building and and that sort of thing
um but uh if you can get it done it's it's an incredibly valuable thing to have and and and
you know Mike to your question like like some people are always going to try and go the fast
route I you know often there's a roadblock somewhere there that all of a sudden happens
where maybe you could have avoided it if you'd you know there's like a tortoise and hare right
that's that's a thing uh kind of analogy here I love it I feel like relationship building is always
my answer to to almost every question I have a lot of people sometimes message me and say how do you
find out about new stuff that's going on I'm like oh I talk to people how do you stay abreast of like
new stuff in the field no I talk to people and they're like no I mean like a website I'm like
no I talk to people all right well I speaking of people uh I have a people question from Abigail
Abigail do you want to unmute and ask this so can you hear me is this working yes I can hear you
it's a little we can hear people behind you too but I think we can hear you fine um so my question
is basically um look like seven years ago I got into data science I had a PhD my boss had a PhD
and or people dropped out of PhD programs like there's a lot of that going on like people were
going into data science from being experts in a data thing already um and I think that was really
useful and now a lot of folks aren't doing that and it's hard for me to like they're going you
know you study back you get a bachelor's degree in data science and now you're a data scientist
and it's hard for me to tell how much it's just like I miss this and I think people I work for
really good versus like no actually you should have done something with the data before you
data scientist like what are what are your thoughts on that I think it's a great question
um I am biased by my own history here for sure um and also you know I've I've been I've been
out of the hiring for data science game for a few years now so I you know all all those caveats
aside I think it is incredibly valuable for people to have a really strong background
in like sort of what I would describe as classical statistics basically or something like it
to go into data science and and the reason what my one of my first bosses out of out of college
he he had this mantra that it's all about the data generating process I and I love this this like
idea that like whatever you are trying to do in data science you are somehow trying to derive
some truth about the data generating process and so having a really strong understanding of
what a data generating process is and how you model it I think is incredibly valuable right
and some of that is statistics some of that right like there are all these newfangled machine
learning things right but like basically all they do is you're removing and here's my my
economics background right it's like in in you can specify basically the parameters of a model
then you estimate the parameters of that model right like if you're talking about like a linear
regression your parameters are just your betas right and yeah I completely mark I completely
agree I I gave a talk a few years back about like you should just do linear modeling and I still
stand by that that talk but I think like right you're at so so like in a linear regression you're
estimating the betas like that's all it is right if you're talking about like a neural net what
you've done is you just you've removed any assumptions about the shape of the underlying
data generating process but now you're estimating millions of parameters instead of like seven and
there are trade-offs there right but my opinion at least is that if you can't form a reasonably good
hypothesis that you will never be able to check about what the data generating hypothesis what
the generating data generating process looks like like my opinion and again I am biased is that you
have no business throwing it all into a black box model and pretending that what comes out is
meaningful because I just don't think that there's um like you you want to have at least a
theory even if you can't test it on what is going on here what am I trying to make sense of that is
happening in the world and that is not to say that like a data science degree doesn't do that I know
from my experience like statistics and econometrics degrees really get into that point of like what is
the underlying distribution that you are trying to model what is the underlying process um and so
like I don't think that all those things are a waste of time that's this is again like this is
me just like giving opinions I have no like standing I'm just sharing opinions but like you
asked so that's my opinion is that is that you know as a um you know as a data scientist you're
trying to make sense of the world in some way and so if you if you believe that just throwing it into
a black box model is is enough to me like that's sort of an abdication of responsibility you're
kind of like the model takes care of it and and the reality is that the model is gonna and this
is right like there's there's a whole field of literature here on like stretching into the
ethics and and stuff of of data you know science and and data usage but a lot of it to me is there's
always implicitly a model of the world and if you're not thinking explicitly about what that
model is that you're trying to like bring to light it's getting it's coming to you and you
might not realize it if you're using some sort of very non-parametric model that just estimates a
gajillion parameters uh you know weights and biases to to spit out some some stuff so again
that's that's my uh by very biased opinion but uh i totally agree with the vibe totally okay you're
here to to talk about things it's okay to have your own opinion on them and i think that there's
a lot of people in the chat probably have their own opinions on these too well i speaking of like
contentious subjects lisa you have a question uh would you like to ask that
sure um i'm trying to find my exact phrase i just was curious um your thoughts on the phrase
r can't be put into production
i mean that was an easy one right um no i think i think that's complete nonsense i think you know
again there's a question of who is putting it into production and what do you mean by production
by production right if you are visa and you have to serve millions of um credit card
authorizations that's probably i mean probably thousands per second right you have to like do
fraud checking thousands per second across the entire like probably r is not the right language
or that like but you need to be using like c++ or rust for that right you need to go like
real far down the stack for that i mean we see r in tons of production contexts here and and the
other thing that i would just say is that like often the implicit second half of that sentence
is you should use python like that's often the implication is like you cannot put r into
production and you should use python i think python is a great language i think that r and
python have a lot of trade-offs against each other it is not clear to me that python has such a
dominant even today that there is such a dominating um advantage for python and production
systems relative to r uh other than that whoever you're talking to probably knows how to put python
in production and probably doesn't know how to put r into production so um you know on for for most
of the um at the scales that most of us are working at right r in production is plenty
performant your code is going to matter far more than whether you were to write the same thing in
python um and uh uh you know i think um i'm trying to think of anything else to say on this riff like
i've just said it all like i i i think i really do think it's it's hogwash i think r has a place
in our production stack right it it shouldn't i also don't i see some people who try and do
everything in r i've occasionally been that person i think that's also a mistake but there's it is
absolutely the case that r can be a part of a really robust production stack and and is at a
lot of large organizations yeah i think i would add like your previous statement about it's all
about relationship building to the answer this question where i know i've been in organizations
where it is just that the people who need to deploy these things don't know how to do it in
r and the most successful data scientists in that organization were the ones who reached out and
just made friends with the people in it and gave them a gentle and friendly introduction to r
and then those people in it went oh this code is actually great and clean and functional and
works well and we can totally put this into production um but those wheels had to be greased
so yeah absolutely plus one for relationship building again um we have a question from
shannon shannon are you still here would you like to ask sure i mean i'm super appreciative of your
book but i was also wondering if you had any advice for people starting in devops with other than
read your book yeah just muck around with stuff i mean i i'm i'm very firmly of the belief that
having some mental models is helpful as a place to start so you can understand like that was sort
of why i wrote the book is like i think it's helpful to have sort of a framework for for what
what you're doing but the way to learn this stuff is really to play around with it right my
book is like so thin on all of these topics there are books like every chapter in my book there's a
book not just a book like books on each of those things and so you know what what i would say here
is find something you want to do and then try and do it and you're gonna get i mean it's it's not
that dissimilar from learning a programming language right uh you you start trying to do
things and you hit roadblocks and you figure it out um and and go along the way so like for me
one of my first big tasks that i did that was like devopsy was for my when i got married i
wrote my own wedding website and then i really wanted to be able to collect rsvps on the wedding
website but i was posting the wedding website in on github which doesn't like it was a public
repo because i wasn't paying for it and so i needed a way and i wanted to load the results
into a google sheet and so i needed basically i just needed a place to like store my and there
are better ways to do this now but this was a few years ago now uh i mean i basically need a place
to like store my google credentials and like turn an api call from my wedding website into a row in
a google sheet and so i like had to figure out how to use aws lambda to like receive this stuff from
my wedding website and like push it out to a google sheet and it wasn't a very complicated
process but i learned a ton just by having to like make a thing that ran in the cloud and
didn't break and like it was it was like seven lines of python code or something right the the
actual coding was trivial but there was a fair bit of sort of devopsy stuff in terms of figuring out
how to how to make that that work um and so that that's that's my advice people is like find
something you want to do whether it's a side project or a work project and and get started
like y'all are here because you're like smart people who can learn technical stuff to me the
biggest barrier is do you have a reason and i often find that it's it's like somewhat helpful
to read books and and that kind of thing to give you a lay of the land a framework for what's going
on but if you want to really understand it there's no substitute for just doing some stuff um so that
that's that is just find a project you want to work on um and and then you know figure out how
to do it after bashing your head against the wall a few dozen times because that's inevitable
ask for help if you're bashing your head against the wall i really appreciate you saying that
because often my biggest barrier is not having a reason to do something to my brain doesn't want to
do things unless there is a reason to do them i would love to shift back to book questions for
just a minute because i said i wanted to ask about book questions and i think it was adam somebody
was like yes more book questions and we have one from neil with an asterisk next to it so i will
read it and it was what did you learn most from the process of writing your book yeah that's an
interesting question um i've had a draft blog post here for a while that i i keep meeting to post and
haven't gotten around to something about having a four-month-old gives you like not that much free
time to like write blog posts and stuff um it's weird like that nobody warned me that my time
would be really busy with a four-month-old who would have thought um for me personally uh i have
never been a very enthusiastic writer and did not consider myself a particularly good writer um so
the main thing i learned is that i am less bad of a writer than i thought perhaps even good at times
i feel pretty good about the book hopefully if you read it you think it's like reasonably readable um
um and you know i learned a lot about how i write and the way my writing and my thinking is really
tied up together um i think i when i started the book i thought my i thought that my ideas were way
more baked than it turned out they were and forcing myself to write a book ended up revealing a lot of
weakness in in the thinking that i that i had and forced me to really get precise in a way that
i didn't have to before that um and that's really tied up in writing for me for me i am a like i
mean some people are different but like i am an out loud thinker i i do my best thinking out loud
and it turns out that writing also provokes the same kind of thing and so for me it was really
really impossible i did outline my book but like i couldn't really know if that outline was any good
until i started writing and understanding whether like okay i wrote this chapter now i'm trying to
write the next chapter but i can't really write that chapter because i needed to introduce
something in the last chapter that i didn't actually get to and actually these chapters
are in the wrong order and they need to be like split up and recombined anyway um and so i i think
that was the biggest learning for me was understanding that like i could create something
written that i think is pretty good but it was a lot of work it was really hard and that the fact
that i don't really like my first drafts was not uh forever damning of my ability to write
something good with enough time and um willingness to go back and polish uh which which took a lot
a lot of time what tool did you use to write your book i did all in quarto i i i think the i think
the very very beginning i started in our markdown and then quarto was out soon thereafter and i
switched over and oh my god it was so much better it's like they took i mean they they literally did
take what they learned from 10 years of writing our markdown and we're like oh let's just include
the batteries this time and um in general i found the quarto book writing experience to be really
great um and uh obviously the the responsiveness of the quarto team when i had questions and
concerns was was awesome um you know posted stuff on github and that kind of thing um but i had a
really good experience i wrote it in in our studio um using quarto which like is not the place where
most people write books but honestly like i think i think it's really easy to get preoccupied with
tools and and you know what and it's just like you just got to write a lot of words like that's
that's the thing is it's just a lot of words and so um i tried really hard to not let my tooling
get in the way of just doing a lot of writing because that's really what i had to do wonderful
thank you i think that's amazing and i will echo um thank you to the quarto team because
quarto is amazing and i love it so so so much um let's see what do we have here which which
direction can we go oh actually emmanuel asked a question that is maybe a little bit silly but
it is definitely still on the book topic emmanuel do you remember what you asked
and if you're still here would you like to to ask it
oh okay i don't hear any i'm muting the question was in the about the author section of your book
it says that you do handstands in your free time so what tips do you have for doing a handstand
great question um so handstands are about balance not strength and if you have crappy shoulders
it's going to take a long time um when you want to work on handstands uh it's really tempting
it's really tempting to do back to the wall when you're working on them
stomach to the wall and then trying to like move yourself off is the right way to work on them
back to the wall makes it really easy to cheat that's my biggest advice also like there are
lots of great programs online i really recommend gold medal body bodies gmb.com or gmb.io they're
awesome i love them as like general fitness people um but they're all like ex-gymnasts who now
do like more general fitness stuff and they're super cool so and and like their vibes are great
they're all about like doing stuff that feels good and it's exciting for you and not trying to like
hurt your body in terrible ways but yeah stomach to the wall i think it's my biggest advice
because it's easy to cheat with back to the wall yes please don't hurt yourself we won't be held
responsible for any injuries yeah i am not this is not a medical advice well i have a um i have
a question that to kind of like steer back to devops um i know we talked about it a little
bit in the beginning but i was wondering if you could talk about like is it easier or harder
to get devops stuff initialized to convince people that you you need foundational stuff
in a smaller organization or a big organization or mid-size because i think a lot of people as i'm
looking at the chat are like this is me i this is me by myself trying to make this work and do you
have any advice for people at those different um great question sizes my yeah in my experience
the difficulty of getting devops stuff done is like sort of u-shaped although it's like shallower
right like if you have org size going that way org size going up that way it's like this where at a
very small organization you're like probably on your own but you can do whatever you want there
are no rules right at a medium-sized organization there's like one person who controls all of the
stuff and they're probably awesome at their job and like that's the dream situation is there's
just like one person you go talk to them and they'll like have a server for you tomorrow
and then as you get bigger right the complexity goes up the number of teams goes up the likelihood
that you have outsourced it goes up and all these things make it more difficult to um to get things
done although there are exceptions right there are very large organizations that take really
seriously making the sort of devops experience great and so there are some large organizations
where actually you'll have a really easy and a great time um with with it but for the most part
it sort of follows that u-shape where like very small organizations you're probably doing it
yourself and like you can do it yourself but you have to learn it's kind of a pain and you might
be scared medium-sized organizations there's like one person and they rule and then large
organizations it can be really really complicated although once you get it done it's probably going
to be pretty pretty awesome um this is the place where i think i like have to say that not have to
but like i do believe that like if you want this to be easy working with your company to get the
posit professional products like makes a lot of this really easy because from their perspective
all they have to do is support the posit products and then you get to sort of do your stuff in a in
a in a way that you know abstracts away some of the devops difficulties like that's really what
the posit professional products are are for um but uh you know you have to be working with some
folks who can install and maintain those things um and and you know obviously there's there's budget
associated with that so you know it's not a perfect answer for everybody um but for a lot
of organizations like that's that's where my day job of like working with organizations that are
trying to buy or have the posit professional products like that's what we talk about is how
do you use those products to enable the data scientists to like be off to the races in in so
many ways so that's that's obviously my little plug there but um yeah small organization
that's true actually i i put in the chat i've experienced ease at a small level and friction
at a larger level but i just realized that i think the ease i felt at the smaller level is i did work
for a small consultative firm it did use posit connect and like that's probably why it was easy
because i could just deploy my shiny app by clicking a button and changing a vanity url
um so yeah i'd probably have a very biased opinion of that i have a great question it's a
little bit more personal and i would also really really love to know this it's from michelle lynn
has an asterisk so i'm going to read it it's how was the transition going from an individual
contributor to managing a solutions engineering team and how did you know that you were ready for
that and i think that you might have managed in previous roles too so however you want to speak
to that yeah i i love this is like so my role now right mostly what i do when i'm not writing
a book which is not which is all the time these days thank god done with that um i um right i
manage a team and and now i like manage managers so like i think this is a um uh this is something
that's near and dear to my heart um and actually i there there isn't i did write an essay on this
on my personal blog um about my first year of management and what a amazing
experience it was and that was before i came to posit so you know i think
one of the um
one of the things about management is that it is a totally different job
from doing data science there's a completely different craft and it really is a craft um one
of the things that i i think is really interesting about management but that is has been frustrating
to me personally right i think many of us probably in this room uh identify as like a smart person
like that's a thing that we value about ourselves um and one of the unfortunate things about being
not unfortunate but one of the things about being a manager is that smart actually doesn't
matter nearly as much as like showing up the right way every day it's it's really a craft it's not
a a uh sort of knowledge-based thing right i've read a lot of books about management and they help
like this much relative to just sort of like showing up right every day and and caring about
your job and so when i'm talking to people who might be interested in management and trying to
decide whether it's the right path for them right to me a lot of the questions that i try and ask
people and try and figure out are like are you more interested in creating a great work environment
for other people than doing the work right uh if you still want to do data science on a day-to-day
basis you should not be a manager when you as a manager right you're in my opinion your job is to
create an environment where other people can do their best work right your job is to create a
place where they have the right level of sort of managerial oversight and that level is not zero
contrary to what like certain engineering places will tell you like managerial oversight and
assistance is really helpful in particular i think a lot if anybody has read casey newport's book
um world without email very good book uh but he really distinguishes between the work and the
workflow right and and how the work of management in a lot of ways is to get the right people
together and design the workflows so they can go do the work where the work is the really like
hard thinking about what to do to be very concrete right like if if we are working with a customer
or a prospect at posit who doesn't have posit professional tools right the work is how to figure
out or how to help that customer understand what value the posit professional tools would bring to
them uh how does it fit in to their existing data stack how would they use it how would it benefit
them right that's the work the workflow is like do they do a proof of concept or not how do we sign
the paperwork for them to you know uh actually acquire the posit products how does a person from
my team get assigned to work with them and so to me if you want to be in a managerial role you have
to be really passionate about that question of helping other people have a really great day
at work and a great year and a great career and care a lot less about like oh i want to go write
a bunch of code if you if you still really want to write code it's probably not the right moment
you know in a lot of organizations there is some flexibility to like try it and see how you feel
if you can be in that kind of environment i think that's great because often people don't
really know um i i will say that like i think a small fraction of people
really get joy from management and management is a slog like relative to individual contributor
work where like you build a model and it works and then you're happy and you like you know uh uh
publish a dashboard and it works and you're happy like that's that's great um as a manager
the wins are way further apart and like it's way more of a slog in between and so you really have
to be excited and and find joy in helping those other people win and and really feel that in in
what gets you out of bed in the morning and if if that doesn't get you out of bed in the morning
probably not the right fit for you now there are organizations where like the only way to move up
is to move into management and that just kind of sucks like increasingly i think there's a
recognition in a lot of organizations that having very senior individual contributor roles and also
manager roles is the right it is the right way to do it some organizations have really recognized
this and built out those like very senior individual contributor roles and other organizations
really haven't and unfortunately if your organization hasn't sort of recognized that
there are there should be paths to leadership and advancement that are not managerial roles
that's a really hard spot to be in uh and unfortunately i i don't have a lot of advice
like i i came to work at posit and we we do take that really seriously uh and i feel very
lucky to be in an environment that takes that really really seriously because it's a it's
uh it it's it's much harder conversation to have with somebody who might want to be a manager and
you're trying to tell them i don't think you want to be a manager if you don't have a great
alternative for them right when you have the alternate senior individual contributor that's
cool if you're just like no and then you can't get promoted i don't know how to have that
conversation i don't have a lot of advice unfortunately that's tough this is one of
those topics i would love to have kind of a whole hangout on just like a topic-based hangout is
what are people saying and experiencing with the sort of ceiling that technical people hit
before you end up not being able to get a raise unless you manage people
if you would like to talk about that let me know in the chat yeah certainly if you look at right
and and i think i think this is starting to come to data science but if you look at mature
software organizations right like microsoft adobe these organizations have you know um uh you know
they're very staff engineers fellows right these very very high level titles where
there may be people like all more or less in the c-suite who are individual contributors and i
think that's really appropriate um and the way it should be i i think some of those models have not
fully moved into data science yet and there's there's uh you know i'm hopeful that they will
i will just say this isn't if you can't tell this is a topic i'm like really passionate
about uh and if if folks want to look me up on linkedin i'm happy to like chat with people
about uh about this topic because i i find it yeah it's it's why so it's why i i think i'm
well suited to be in management because i love talking about this part of it uh you know i can
talk about linear models but like really this is the part that i love that's that part of the
question that says how'd you know you were ready maybe that's it i started caring about the people
stuff a lot and feeling passionate about it it's actually a great question it actually to me links
up with the devops part which is like as i became more senior i started like mentoring people on a
technical level and there was this pull to like go down the stack kind of right like i started um
uh i started you know like building packages to help them do things in r and then you know and
and felt that same pull to sort of go down the stack um in a variety of ways um so i think that's
that to me was was an indication and obviously i didn't know a lot of this
until after i became a manager and then had done it for a while so well i have another manager
question for you maybe we can slide it in really quickly we've only got 10 minutes left
it's from slido so it's anonymous and i will read it broadly speaking as a manager what is one skill
that you wish was better developed in your staff and i will let you take that any direction that
you want to um i'm going to reject the premise of the question um i was just thinking maybe this
question needs to be reworded just a little bit yeah i would say um this is something that i
select for really heavily in in hiring um and i think it is crucial for solutions engineering and
also for data scientists and that is curiosity like number one by far is curiosity um i i tell
people when i am in a hiring process i make about 90 of my decision based on the questions the other
person asks me um i i basically think of the like part where i ask them questions which is for me i
split my my interviews about in half so i spend about half of it asking them questions and then
like leave their questions for about half and to me and this is especially true in roles where
right like a solutions engineering role where you are working with people um and i think most roles
you work with people i don't know many where you actually don't um to me i'm actually much
more interested in what is this person learned over the first you know over reading the job
interview and the job posting and that sort of thing um and then what questions do they have on
the back of that are they asking good questions are they asking questions that like are like way
off topic and and are clear that they like haven't understood what we're doing here or
are they asking questions that really get to the heart of the work that to me is is really important
and so um i would say this is a quality that is very well developed on on the team that i'm a part
of because we we really pay a lot of attention to it in in hiring um but i i think to me you
know curiosity will kind of take you everywhere and it is it is something you know the other
question is that there's a lot of things that are really hard to select for in hiring like it's
really hard to assess how good is somebody at working with other people like you can you can
get a get a vibe for it but like it's pretty hard to assess you can pretty well assess in an interview
whether somebody is a curious person and whether they'll be able to bring that curiosity to work
and so i think it is something that is unusually easy to assess in an interview and generally a
very positive sign if somebody seems curious and and and by curious i mean not just like oh i
have a lot of questions but like thinks about what they're hearing and then asks good questions
as a result that really gets the heart of what what we might be talking about in in a job interview
um but to me that's an essential skill as as a solutions engineer and as a data scientist like
that's what you're doing is asking questions and you know again to get back to the like it's all
about the data generating process right if when you see something weird happening in the data do
you just sort of hand wave it away or do you get curiosity get curious and try and figure out what's
going on i i'm sure all of you have had the experience of like you know dodging some really
weird mistake in your data because uh because you um you know uh uh you know asked a question that
turned out like that missing data is missing and it means something when it's missing it's not just
sort of missing or or the opposite right uh i know we've all you know many of us i've certainly
had that experience many of us have had that experience and so i think both in data science
and in solutions engineering it's just a absolutely critical um attribute for people to bring i agree
sweet okay i've got a one more book question but a technical book question from stephanie
stephanie are you here would you like to ask your question you are lucky i was just about to hang up
to go to a meeting so um um i was wondering um wrapping up a book with crc and we chose
um our markdown instead of corto because we were struggling a lot with their template
um for getting pdf how much did you fight with that with corto or we were i don't know why we
had so much problems yeah i for the latex side yeah i didn't have a ton of trouble with their
template it worked quite smoothly um i don't know are you working with randy i was working with no
um no but we didn't have a lot of trouble with the template um there were some issues with like
latex you know there's always oh yeah that's where we are we're in overleaf and doing the final
final tech tweaking now it's such a flog um but no we we did not with corto the template
part was super easy okay um there were there were lots of little nitpicky things but it was all
little nitpicky things the the templating and that kind of stuff was super easy okay awesome
technical stuff is always tough and latex is just always yes and stephanie um if you want to
hit me up offline at the um the underscore corto.yaml in my um in the public version is the
version for the um like for the github version but if you want to take a look at what i did
on the latex i just hit me up on linkedin or x twitter or something and i will happily share
what i've got that is a very generous offer thank you i know a lot of people end up with crc
in our community so that's awesome okay we've got a few more minutes left and neil asked a great
question that i think a lot of people also ask and it's got an asterisk next to it so
on the topic of python and r is it realistic to use a mix of r and python in the same pipeline
yes absolutely the question is where do you make them meet right like where where do you force them
to interact you can with quarto have them like in interleaving in different um uh chunks in one
document i would argue to do that would be a mistake it is just like a lot of headache that
i don't think you need to try and render one quarto document with both r and python
i think in general something that data scientists can learn and this is i think it's chapter three
in the book or something um one thing that data scientists could really take from software
engineering um this is sort of devops but more just software engineering is like really thinking
about the structure of the work that we're doing and how to create clean divisions between different
parts of a project and so for me i would say like you absolutely can use both r and python
in one pipeline i would recommend if you're doing that like they should communicate via api
through json or something else right maybe you write to like a database or a you know parquet
file or something but like you want a pretty clear line of delineation i think between them
because if you're doing tasks that are different enough that it's best to write them in different
programming languages you want sort of a clear handoff and so designing a project so that there
are clear handoffs from one stage to the next and if you want to do cross languages from language to
language i think is really important and i think one flaw that many data scientists have is that we
just don't have training as software engineers and so one thing that i think is worth spending some
time thinking about is like where are there opportunities to create a clear handoff and
abstraction point in the project that i'm doing so i in again in the book i talk a lot about like
there's this concept in um in software engineering of three layer apps right there's the front end
the business logic and the data layer and like you can get like there are all kinds of like
different ways to think about this and like oh no the three layer app sucks oh no it's great oh no
it sucked like whatever i don't care but having any sort of framework that you're trying to hit
in terms of how the parts of your project fit together i think is is really really helpful
right it's it's like it's like the metal right it's like how you take your spaghetti code and
turn it into functions it's the like one level up version from that is how do you structure the
actual components of a project um i think it's something that that you know many data scientists
should probably do more of and again if you're going to go cross language probably a good sign
that you should have some real handoff awesome all right well we've made it to the top of the hour
alex thank you so much thank oh we didn't die yeah we're good great no passing out that was
a real is a real uh possibility um there are some questions that we didn't get to answer
everybody's questions were amazing thank you i might sneak into alex's dms and ask him a couple
of these just so i can put the answers on linkedin so find me on linkedin i don't even have my own
linkedin as a link i'm the only libby heron on linkedin so type my name and then you will find me
um and maybe i'll post some extra answers from alex um later today thank you so much everybody
for coming i hope you have a wonderful day alex thank you so much and thank you again
curtis randy thank you bye everybody